In the last lecture we learned how we can pass data into your component.
We're not limited to that though.
We can also emit our own event to the outside world.
So let's say that if we clicked this paragraph here we actually want to emit an event which we can handle
in the U.S. instance where we use days component.
Well we can simply use Villon here and then click.
I told you you can use all the features you know and there you can simply call any method.
So let's say user name clicked and this method of course has to be added to your component so let's
add our methods object just like in a normal instance.
We should name this method user name clicked because that's what we try to call.
And here we can use days.
And now a special function viewed as gets you dollar sign.
You can tailor the functions provided by View chairs by the fact that it has a dollar sign if you use
it inside of a component or instance dollar sign emit.
This takes two arguments the first one is the name by which you can listen to this event.
So we could named is user collect like name is totally up to you.
The second argument can be any data object a string you want to pass.
So here we could pass this username.
Now with that we can listen to this event.
Let's say here on the first component of course we can listen to it on both components I'm just splitting
this over multiple lines here to make it a bit easier to read.
By adding the on on our own component and now listening to our own event.
So user clicked and in here we can now execute our code.
So here I want to execute user was clicked and I will pass an argument dollar sign event I reserved
the variable we can use here which will always hold the event data which was submitted.
So Mujeres will give us this event data through this resurged variable name.
Now user was clicked as a method of I of course have to ask therefore.
So I will add it to my first instance here maybe below get color here I know that I get the event data
and we know that the event data will be just a string right.
The user name what we emit here.
So therefore I know that this will just be the name and I can simply for example then alert the name
if I now had control enter and click on Chris.
Nothing happens.
Why.
Well that's something we'll have a look at in a second to make it work.
We simply have to make sure that we rename our event here to user clicked lowercase and add in our template.
We also listened to user clicked.
Now Xvid control enter and click Chris we see that.
But why did we have to make that change.